After a year or so had passed, the Queen brought a son into the
world. Thereupon the Virgin Mary appeared to her in the night when she
lay in her bed alone, and said, "If thou wilt tell the truth and confess
that thou didst unlock the forbidden door, I will open thy mouth and give
thee back thy speech, but if thou perseverest in thy sin, and deniest
obstinately, I will take thy new-born child away with me." Then the queen
was permitted to answer, but she remained hard, and said, "No, I did not
open the forbidden door;" and the Virgin Mary took the new-born child from
her arms, and vanished with it. Next morning when the child was not to be
found, it was whispered among the people that the Queen was a man-eater,
and had killed her own child. She heard all this and could say nothing to
the contrary, but the King would not believe it, for he loved her so much.

When a year had gone by the Queen again bore a son, and in the night
the Virgin Mary again came to her, and said, "If thou wilt confess that
thou openedst the forbidden door, I will give thee thy child back and
untie thy tongue; but if you continuest in sin and deniest it, I will
take away with me this new child also." Then the Queen again said, "No,
I did not open the forbidden door;" and the Virgin took the child out
of her arms, and away with her to heaven. Next morning, when this child
also had disappeared, the people declared quite loudly that the Queen
had devoured it, and the King's councillors demanded that she should
be brought to justice. The King, however, loved her so dearly that he
would not believe it, and commanded the councillors under pain of death
not to say any more about it.

The following year the Queen gave birth to a beautiful little daughter,
and for the third time the Virgin Mary appeared to her in the night and
said, "Follow me." She took the Queen by the hand and led her to heaven,
and showed her there her two eldest children, who smiled at her, and were
playing with the ball of the world. When the Queen rejoiced thereat, the
Virgin Mary said, "Is thy heart not yet softened? If thou wilt own that
thou openedst the forbidden door, I will give thee back thy two little
sons." But for the third time the Queen answered, "No, I did not open the
forbidden door." Then the Virgin let her sink down to earth once more,
and took from her likewise her third child.

Next morning, when the loss was reported abroad, all the people cried
loudly, "The Queen is a man-eater. She must be judged," and the King was
no longer able to restrain his councillors. Thereupon a trial was held,
and as she could not answer, and defend herself, she was condemned to
be burnt alive. The wood was got together, and when she was fast bound
to the stake, and the fire began to burn round about her, the hard ice
of pride melted, her heart was moved by repentance, and she thought,
"If I could but confess before my death that I opened the door." Then her
voice came back to her, and she cried out loudly, "Yes, Mary, I did it;"
and straight-way rain fell from the sky and extinguished the flames of
fire, and a light broke forth above her, and the Virgin Mary descended
with the two little sons by her side, and the new-born daughter in her
arms. She spoke kindly to her, and said, "He who repents his sin and
acknowledges it, is forgiven." Then she gave her the three children,
untied her tongue, and granted her happiness for her whole life.



4 The Story of the Youth Who Went Forth to Learn What Fear Was

A certain father had two sons, the elder of whom was smart and sensible,
and could do everything, but the younger was stupid and could neither
learn nor understand anything, and when people saw him they said, "There's
a fellow who will give his father some trouble!" When anything had to be
done, it was always the elder who was forced to do it; but if his father
bade him fetch anything when it was late, or in the night-time, and the
way led through the churchyard, or any other dismal place, he answered
"Oh, no, father, I'll not go there, it makes me shudder!" for he was
afraid. Or when stories were told by the fire at night which made the
flesh creep, the listeners sometimes said "Oh, it makes us shudder!"
The younger sat in a corner and listened with the rest of them, and
could not imagine what they could mean. "They are always saying 'it
makes me shudder, it makes me shudder!' It does not make me shudder,"
thought he. "That, too, must  be an art of which I understand nothing."

Now it came to pass that his father said to him one day "Hearken to me,
thou fellow in the corner there, thou art growing tall and strong, and
thou too must learn something by which thou canst earn thy living. Look
how thy brother works, but thou dost not even earn thy salt." "Well,
father," he replied, "I am quite willing to learn something---indeed, if
it could but be managed, I should like to learn how to shudder. I don't
understand that at all yet." The elder brother smiled when he heard that,
and thought to himself, "Good God, what a blockhead that brother of mine
is! He will never be good for anything as long as he lives. He who wants
to be a sickle must bend himself betimes."

The father sighed, and answered him "thou shalt soon learn what it is
to shudder, but thou wilt not earn thy bread by that."

Soon after this the sexton came to the house on a visit, and the father
bewailed his trouble, and told him how his younger son was so backward
in every respect that he knew nothing and learnt nothing. "Just think,"
said he, "when I asked him how he was going to earn his bread, he
actually wanted to learn to shudder." "If that be all," replied the
sexton, "he can learn that with me. Send him to me, and I will soon
polish him." The father was glad to do it, for he thought, "It will
train the boy a little." The sexton therefore took him into his house,
and he had to ring the bell. After a day or two, the sexton awoke him
at midnight, and bade him arise and go up into the church tower and
ring the bell. "Thou shalt soon learn what shuddering is," thought he,
and secretly went there before him; and when the boy was at the top
of the tower and turned round, and was just going to take hold of the
bell rope, he saw a white figure standing on the stairs opposite the
sounding hole. "Who is there?" cried he, but the figure made no reply,
and did not move or stir. "Give an answer," cried the boy, "or take thy
self off, thou hast no business here at night."
