Language: English

1 The Frog-King, or Iron Henry

In old times when wishing still helped one, there lived a king whose
daughters were all beautiful, but the youngest was so beautiful that the
sun itself, which has seen so much, was astonished whenever it shone in
her face. Close by the King's castle lay a great dark forest, and under
an old lime-tree in the forest was a well, and when the day was very warm,
the King's child went out into the forest and sat down by the side of the
cool fountain, and when she was dull she took a golden ball, and threw
it up on high and caught it, and this ball was her favorite plaything.

Now it so happened that on one occasion the princess's golden ball did
not fall into the little hand which she was holding up for it, but on to
the ground beyond, and rolled straight into the water. The King's daughter
followed it with her eyes, but it vanished, and the well was deep, so deep
that the bottom could not be seen. On this she began to cry, and cried
louder and louder, and could not be comforted. And as she thus lamented
some one said to her, "What ails thee, King's daughter? Thou weepest so
that even a stone would show pity." She looked round to the side from
whence the voice came, and saw a frog stretching forth its thick, ugly
head from the water. "Ah! old water-splasher, is it thou?" said she;
"I am weeping for my golden ball, which has fallen into the well."

"Be quiet, and do not weep," answered the frog, "I can help thee, but
what wilt thou give me if I bring thy plaything up again?" "Whatever
thou wilt have, dear frog," said she--"My clothes, my pearls and jewels,
and even the golden crown which I am wearing."

The frog answered, "I do not care for thy clothes, thy pearls and
jewels, or thy golden crown, but if thou wilt love me and let me be
thy companion and  play-fellow, and sit by thee at thy little table,
and eat off thy little golden plate, and drink out of thy little cup,
and sleep in thy little bed---if thou wilt promise me this I will go
down below, and bring thee thy golden ball up again."

"Oh yes," said she, "I promise thee all thou wishest, if thou wilt but
bring me my ball back again." She, however, thought, "How the silly
frog does talk! He lives in the water with the other frogs, and croaks,
and can be no companion to any human being!"

But the frog when he had received this promise, put his head into the
water and sank down, and in a short while came swimmming up again with
the ball in his mouth, and threw it on the grass. The King's daughter
was delighted to see her pretty plaything once more, and picked it up,
and ran away with it. "Wait, wait," said the frog. "Take me with thee. I
can't run as thou canst." But what did it avail him to scream his croak,
croak, after her, as loudly as he could? She did not listen to it, but
ran home and soon forgot the poor frog, who was forced to go back into
his well again.

The next day when she had seated herself at table with the King and all
the courtiers, and was eating from her little golden plate, something
came creeping splish splash, splish splash, up the marble staircase, and
when it had got to the top, it knocked at the door and cried, "Princess,
youngest princess, open the door for me." She ran to see who was outside,
but when she opened the door, there sat the frog in front of it. Then
she slammed the door to, in great haste, sat down to dinner again, and
was quite frightened. The King saw plainly that her heart was beating
violently, and said, "My child, what art thou so afraid of? Is  there
perchance a giant outside who wants to carry thee away?" "Ah, no,"
replied she. "It is no giant but a disgusting frog."

"What does a frog want with thee?" "Ah, dear father, yesterday as I was
in the forest sitting by the well, playing, my golden ball fell into the
water. And because I cried so, the frog brought it out again for me,
and because he so insisted, I promised him he should be my companion,
but I never thought he would be able to come out of his water! And now
he is outside there, and wants to come in to me."

In the meantime it knocked a second time, and cried,


       "Princess! youngest princess!
       Open the door for me!
       Dost thou not know what thou saidst to me

       Yesterday by the cool waters of the fountain?
       Princess, youngest princess!
       Open the door for me!"

Then said the King, "That which thou hast promised must thou perform. Go
and let him in." She went and opened the door, and the frog hopped in
and followed her, step by step, to her chair. There he sat and cried,
"Lift me up beside thee." She delayed, until at last the King commanded
her to do it. When the frog was once on the chair he wanted to be on the
table, and when he was on the table he said, "Now, push thy little golden
plate nearer to me that we may eat together." She did this, but it was
easy to see that she did not do it willingly. The frog enjoyed what he
ate, but almost every mouthful she took choked her. At length he said,
"I have eaten and am satisfied; now I am tired, carry me into thy little
room and make thy little silken bed ready, and we will both lie down
and go to sleep."
